Let's get into aggregation.
It's actually one of my
favorite parts about MongoDB.
I have a lot of favorite things
when it comes to databases.
This is a favorite thing,
as well as the other things that I
was favoriting before also favorite.
All right, we're gonna be talking
about going back here aggregation.
This is one of the first things that
actually got me like really excited about
MongoDB.
It felt like I could do, I don't know, it
felt like I was able to get interesting,
unique insights out of my database that I
felt like I couldn't have done previously.
So here's my example of
when I used this before.
I used to work at a like
classifieds Type website.
So you can picture like Craigslist.
I didn't work at Craigslist.
I worked at a different company
that did similar types of thing,
and we had a rule that people
could only post five ads.
Otherwise they had to pay money to
be able to post more ads, right?
That's kind of the monetization
strategy for this company.
But we'd have people that would just
go in and create multiple accounts,
businesses, right?
People would dishonestly
circumvent the rules and go and
post multiple classifieds.
And so I actually used this
technique to go in and
find ads have the same address in them.
And then I was actually able to
automatically ban people that were posting
multiple ads across different accounts,
right?
Again, I was a brand new developer I
was writing PHP for at the time, right?
And this felt like a superpower to me that
I was able to write this like automatic
banning mechanism for people that
were circumventing the rules and
it's through this power
called aggregation.
I'm going to show you
the new way of doing this in
MongoDB called the aggregation pipeline.
This is the preferred way,
the better way to do it.
But there's an old way of
doing it called MapReduce.
And if you're a functional programmer, and
you like those kind of things that sounds
very appealing to it's still available,
you can still do MapReduce,
it's just lower bit harder to understand.
So we're going to focus on the aggregation
pipeline, but also know that there's
the MapReduce framework out there as well
for doing MapReduce against MongoDB.
So, what the aggregation pipeline
allows you to do basically allows you
to take your data and slice it up
into various different buckets.
And then you can kind of do averages.
You can do additions, basically allows
you to derive insight from your data,
allows you to combine them and unwind them
in interesting ways to kind of figure out,
I don't know anything that you
want to know about your data.
So well then I'm going to show you right
now is I want to find out how many puppies
are in my database.
How many adult dogs are in my database and
how many senior and
super senior animals are in my database.
This is possible through
the aggregation framework.
So let's give her a shot here.
We're gonna say DB.pets.aggregate.
And then it does this in stages, right?
So you can give it multiple different
stages of like, do this first,
then do this, then do this.
So we're going to give it one
stage first of bucketing.
So the bucket allows
you to break your we're
going to break our pet collection
down into buckets of by age.
So with the bucket here,
we're going to say.
GroupBy, Dollar sign age so the dollar
sign is just saying that's the name of
the field that I want you to look for.
So dollar sign age is going
to be grouped by their age.
Okay then the boundaries.
This is going to be defining the kind
of boundaries of where we want to put
our dogs.
So the first one is going
to be down to zero, right?
So, anything between zero and two,
I don't know if I'm correct, but
I'm asserting anything between zero and
two.
I'm going to consider a puppy,
everything from three to eight,
I'm going to be considering an adult and
everything above that.
I'm going to be considering
a senior animal, so zero.
So it includes the bottom and
excludes the top.
So zero to three sets us
everything from zero to two.
We will be in the first bucket.
Everything from three to eight
will be in the adult bucket.
And everything from 9 to 15
will be in the senior bucket.
Then we have to give it some sort of
default because we do have some animals
that are even older than that.
We're just gonna put those
into like very senior, or
you could also call that like 16 plus,
whatever you wanna call that last bucket.
Basically, you're saying anything that
doesn't fit my boundaries stick in this
other bucket.
And then you have to define what kinda
output that you wanna put in there.
I just wanna count but if you want it to
like I don't know you can put the animals
into the buckets and
then do more aggregation on them later.
There's a bunch of stuff you
can do with the output here.
It's kind of like the projection that
you want out of your animal here.
So the output all I want is a count.
And I just want you to keep a running
total, so I'm gonna say sum: 1, so
that means for every animal that you find
in this bucket, increase the count by one.
I got to keep my I can never keep
these damn curly braces straight.
So that's for bucket.
That's for the one that contains bucket.
And then I want to close the array and
close the function call, yes, got it.
First time, like a champion, all right, so
ID this would correspond to the boundary,
right?
So from zero to two, I have 1071 pets,
from three to eight I have 3218,
from nine to 14 yeah,
so I guess 16 wasn't plus wasn't right,
it's actually technically 15 plus.
Anyways, in my super senior category,
I have 2141.
In fact, let's just fix that so
I can feel good about myself.
So in this 15 plus one, so
that's 15 or above, we have 2141.
Okay, so that's interesting.
That's actually not technically
what the question was.
The question was is, how do we figure
out how many senior dogs, right?
So actually,
this is all the senior animals so
I bucketed all animals in the pet.
Collection, not just dogs, so I actually
need to add another stage to this.
And the way I'm gonna do that,
well, I'm just gonna copy and
paste it from here and explain it.
All right, so this bucket,
this is the same one except it's
called very senior here, right?
We add another stage we're gonna put that
stage before the one that where we go and
bucket them and we're gonna just say hey,
match everything that's dog,
drop everything that's else.
And so that's the first stage
will be that match stage.
The second stage will
be the bucketing stage.
So you can see here now these numbers
are much smaller because we're just
looking at dogs.
We're not looking at the rest
of the pets in the collection.
So let's add one more thing.
Let's say that for whatever reason,
we wanted to sort these by
which one had the most, right?
I mean, obviously,
we can do that visually.
But that's less interesting.
Let's do it programmatically.
Add one more stage.
So the pet, the match stage is the same,
the bucket stage stays the same, but
adding one more stage at the end.
Now we're just saying
sort by count descending,
which basically says we're
going to have the one with
the most first second most second,
so on and so forth.
So you can see here we have the most adult
animals, second most senior animals,
third most very senior animals and
the least amount of puppies.
This is just one very, very simple
use case of the aggregation pipeline.
This is a infinitely flexible,
you can do lots of really amazing
things with the aggregation pipeline.
I just wanted to kinda like get
your head around it a little bit.
So you can think like, hey, I need to
derive this insight out of my data.
I need to figure out, how many
reptiles were born on Tuesdays, right?
I don't know stuff like that
that stuff that the aggregation
pipeline could totally figure out for you.
You're kind of getting
into almost like datasets.
Actually not kind of you're literally
getting into like the data science part of
what you can do with databases,
which is kind of some of the cool stuff
like I'm not a data scientist, but
anytime that you let me do data
sciency stuff, I feel like a wizard.
So I like doing that kind of stuff.